# PrototypeFYP

This Application developed for the purpose of the prototype is a very simple application which highlights some functionality that can be expected within the final system. The functionality focused on within this prototype includes the addition of Maps and a correspondance with the remote database to be used within the proposed system (Firebase).

MapActivity.java: (PrototypeFYP > app > src > main > java > ie > dit > interimprototype)

On creation of the Android Activity, the map is provided with a container element (SupportMapFragment). This element will also enable access to the map and allow the Map to be configured and edited. Following this the getMapAsync() method is called which notifies the application when the Map is ready to be used. This triggers the onMapReady() method where a global instance of the Map is assigned for configuration throughout the application. Once this is complete, the Application awaits an event on the input text field at the top of the screen.

When this input text field is clicked, the input text field element awaits the enter button to be pressed. When pressed, a Geocoder object is instantiated. A Geocoder object is used to transform an address of some description into latitude and longitutde, or vice-versa. In this application, the Geocoder object is used to get an array of addresses that meet the criteria entered into the search bar at the top of the screen. From this returned array, the closest match to the description entered within the search bar is captured into a variable. From this Address variable, the latitude and longitude values are then used to move and zoom the Map element. The map will then zoom to this element and drop a marker on that location.

This location can then be saved to the database by clicking the button with the save icon at the bottom right hand corner of the screen. This button will upload the name, address and latitude and longitude of this marked location to the Firebase database. This is done using the push method on the referenced database being used by the application. In this prototype, a sample of the type of data to be added to the proposed system is shown. This application will push a new field to the "courses" entity which will be uniquely identified. Using this unique identifier, values relating to that course can be assigned. These values include, name, address and location which references the latitude and longitude values. From here, another golf course can be searched and saved to the remote database.
